the global economy is facing massive
headwinds right now today and that's
what we're going to break down and
you'll understand why this affects you
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you today we're going to
talk about Google but not just Google
we're going to understand why what's
happening there is connected with what's
going on around the world and Ecommerce
and shipping and everything else there's
a lot going on that we should be paying
attention to because 2024 is going to be
the year that you might harden up and be
able to deal with it or you might not
and be crushed by it you have to decide
what side you want to be on okay let's
begin Google CEO tells employees to
expect more job Cuts this year an
internal memo uh basically says that
removing layers to simplify execution
and drive velocity in some areas what
does that mean it means you're going to
get a message if you're super supervisor
if you're manager and they're going to
say all right here we go you were a
manager and now you're a regular
employee do you like that no I don't
like that what are you talking about I
work so hard to get a to get this
position it's no I don't like that okay
you can quit now do you like it yeah
yeah I like it I want to stay I want to
stay employed at Google okay there you
go uh other people would just get fired
so that's what's happening and a lot of
times by the way they do give Severance
packages they don't that's not that's
not the point it's that person is not
employed okay um so they could
potentially get hired somewhere else but
across the board there are a lot of
layoffs so we have this quiet fir ring
taking place I've seen it with Facebook
before you see Google and uh there's
many many other places that they're
doing this you basically make their life
difficult in some way that hopefully
they quit or you simply just you know
push them to the curb that's what's
going on with this one particular
company just know that that it's
happening broadly why well there's much
it's a much different landscape today in
2024 than it was even last year but
certainly back in 2022 some things have
changed and we're going to talk about
those Today Sports Illustrated entire
staff told that they are getting laid
off I don't know how this works okay
because you know if I laid off everybody
at the money GPS well then uh nobody
would be here working it would you
wouldn't hear me talking that's weird
right okay so looking at this you could
see the arena group had ex had rolled
out reports that Fable magazine
published AI generated content admitted
to failing to make a $3 million
quarterly licensing payment to authentic
Brands group this week uhoh well it
looks like they don't have anybody
working there they want to use AI
content can't do it and so everybody's
gone so there's no more Sports
Illustrated I don't really know but
anyway it looks like their whole model
uh has been crushed okay they face some
backlash uh multiple times and then AI
generated content probably not the best
thing and so I guess they're done okay
the point is one thing after another we
see we have more cancellation of student
loans what does that mean well you the
individual pay for that that's the way
it works okay and we're at 136 billion
dollar so far in the last few years and
that tells us that there is going to be
somebody footing the bill for all of
that debt it comes in student loans it
comes in Medicare and Medicaid it comes
in the form of infrastructure it comes
everywhere but some way shape or form
somebody's got to pay the bill and when
that happens it needs to be done by
raising taxes as well as more debt more
debt more debt more debt you think it
goes away it doesn't go away it gets
transferred from one person having to
pay it to another more debt higher taxes
devaluation of your currency because of
the eventual eventual quantity of easing
that will happen so we have layoffs
weakening economy in some sectors no
question about that at the same time
people cannot pay their debt the uh net
interest is too high so the borrowing
cost too high okay that's what we talked
about so far let's show you this Germany
once a Powerhouse is at an economic
standstill so this is one country that
I've been talking about for over a
decade saying like you know Italy
remember the pigs countries Portugal
Italy um Germany or Greece excuse me and
Spain
those were the pigs and even Ireland was
in there for a bit oh but that changed
right because now we're talking about
Germany you don't hear the news about
you know how terrible the economy is in
Italy you're hearing Germany why because
it went from the top and now it's just
getting crushed certainly doesn't have
the debt that Italy does or Spain does
or Portugal does but looking at this I
mean a lot has changed a lot has changed
there economy just you know you can't
have one good economy in in Europe
doesn't work like that you need a strong
economy overall you need the exports you
need the Imports things need to happen
but they're not and so this spreads Euro
viral contagion that's what I called it
in my first book Euro viral
contagion now this is from mesk m is the
biggest shipping company in the world
e-commerce update Christmas shopping
period tends to be one of the busiest
times for e-commerce businesses this
year however retailers across the UK and
Germany reported weaker consumer spend
and a sluggish sales growth other
European countries followed suit with
the majority seeing a decrease in
average consumer spend compared to the
previous year so look I mean just just
that alone it's anecdotal evidence it's
also coming from a great great source
saying that people weren't spending the
money that they did the year before and
let's be honest the year before it
wasn't anything special right we're not
going playing with the year-over-year
metrics and and you know looks out of
whack it wasn't so what are what's
happening well I can tell you right now
that generally in my
business Q4 super busy you want to ship
products in you got to have extra lead
times you know that the costs are going
to be higher oh no it sucks this year no
delays no the layes at all at least that
was my experience uh and I'm obviously a
small fish in a big pond but you know I
have that experience consistently
consistently consistently moving
thousands and thousands and thousands of
units every single month and I would get
a sense of it this year didn't happen so
there's just a lot less stuff moving
from place to place that tells us and
using the cardboard index by the way
cardboard was in less demand cardboard
need those boxes suddenly in less
demand Red Sea attacks are already a
bigger issue for the supply chain than
what happened in 2020 Maritime advisory
worms I don't know about that entirely
because it's affecting one very
important area but it's only one area as
opposed to like the entire world just
shutting down but it is so bad that you
know things are like very concerning in
that area for obvious reasons uh just
know what does it do huh of course less
stuff moving through you can see the
expected Freight that's the black line
and then the actual Freight which is
just basically fall to nothing and while
they might have given safe passage to
Russia and China's ships uh you know
it's just it's a big problem so this is
It's might be hard to see cuz all the
colors are kind of mixed together and
even when I zoomed in I was still
finding it difficult on my own but
showing from one port to another Port
looking at the costs and you'll look
around and in
general uh if it's going to go through
the Red Sea the costs are going to be
significantly higher it jumped just like
that and of course what do this do
delays the time in which it takes from a
point A to point B and also increase the
cost there's no question about that so
then you know if they go
around um if they go around South Africa
Africa that adds I think they said 10 to
12 days of time and so that you know if
each ship 10 to 12 Days 10 to 12 days
this this slows everything down and so
you got a big problem I don't see it
getting resolved in the next few days
you know what I mean it's not as if it's
just hey quick okay it's a it's a
weekend and we get a problem resolved
like remember that ship that just
suddenly just decided to turn
sideways um and I think that was the SU
can now and hey oh big ship suddenly
just found itself sideways blocked the
entire thing that was a problem but it
was resolved relatively soon okay
problem resolved okay let's move on this
is potentially going further potentially
so we'll see what happens there but of
course means higher inflation higher
prices delays problems that you will
experience the there is I guess this
considered good news Okay depending on
how you look at this Global coal exports
and power generation hit new highs in
2023 meaning that number one energy
usage we want to see energy being used
at a high rate we want that because that
means the economy is doing well but what
does it tell you if
coal is uh by the way they have a chart
here just showing you what does it mean
when coal something that they tried to
bankrupt if you remember Obama talked
about this years ago oh yeah you could
start a a coal company but we're going
to bankrupt you what does it tell you
that tells you that the other source of
energy haven't come to play now I think
nuclear over the next several years will
probably be playing a bigger role in
Europe and other places it's going to
come online I've been talking about this
talking about uranium since 2020 avidly
like Avid like hey everybody get on that
anyway uh Indonesia if you look at
through this list Indonesia
has not only been a big player here but
that has been growing over the years too
so just keep that in mind okay but I
look at this and I say what does that
mean it means the other energy sources
have not been keeping up with the demand
the requirement that's been there at the
same time you've got a lot of coal in
places like India and places like China
that they're still using that even
though they might be bringing wind and
solar and whatever all these things they
are still using losing a lot of that
coal and so you could see the demand is
certainly there it it's not subsiding
anytime soon it started going crazy in
20120 and um you could see that that's
kind of a sign of energy usage but where
is it going so there's always two sides
of the story I just want to keep that um
all so we get the the understanding of
what's happening with the global economy
is not a
onesided thing today it is a very much a
mixed bag but keep your situation in
order keep it under control you got to
watch what's happening with inflation
it's going to potentially heat up at any
second so keep this all in mind of what
we talked about today if you want to get
your own financial situation in order
the money gps.com
Compass why because it's a free
financial um education program totally
free no email no login no nothing just
get in there watch the videos 20 minutes
you'll have all the understanding the
basics the foundation of the financial
system that is my gift to you nobody
else out there has done this kind of
thing it's simple yes but nobody else
has done that I gave it free I got all
kinds of stuff the money gps.com you
start there get everything checked in
make sure you got the financial
education because 2024 is going to be a
difficult year for some and I hope that
you'll be prepared all right I'll see
you tomorrow take care